+++
title = 'Point Crawl Star Chart (Video)'
date = 2024-12-20T13:14:00-08:00
draft = false
tags = ['Updates']
+++

Carsten‬‭ Rossner made a video recently demonstrating his method of building a point-crawl star chart for his solitaire games:

{{< youtube id=E65FI-N5Xyw loading=lazy >}}

One thing this solution solves very nicely is the problem of solar system charts where the planetary bodies are moving in orbit and the distance between them would always be changing based on their positioning. It handles this use case because each time you calculate the travel distance (and obstacles) between point A & B you are randomly rolling the start and end point on the chart.

The ultra-simulationist player might prefer a more rigid set of lookup tables to calculate a more exact travel time between planets but myself I quite like the idea of variable travel times being baked into the chart's assumptions and simplifying the calculations. 

Even if your chart's scale is representing travel time between star systems in a much broader region of space, you can imagine that those times change because of variations in conditions between the two points. For example, in extended universe Star Wars lore it is established that the travel time in a hyperspace lane is not fixed. Frequent use of the lane would reduce travel times because additional (and current) data was collected for the hyperspace computers to use when making their calculations. Meanwhile a hyperspace lane that has fallen out of favor or is rarely used has less data and therefore the computer routines optimize the safety of the ship and passengers over attempting to speed up travel through the lane.

Of course you can also "fix" the travel times by keeping a log of point A & B (Planet A is #5 and Planet B is #12) and there by always knowing what the exact time will be in the future.

Cheers to Carsten for sharing his method and I'm sure you'll see it used here in the future.
