+++
title = 'Survey & Explore Logs 4781.11 - 4781.17'
date = 2024-11-08T12:40:00-08:00
draft = false
tags = ['Traveller', 'HOSTILE: Solo', 'Retro Sci-Fi']
universes = ['Survey & Explore']
+++

## Captain’s Log, Mark 4781.11

We are currently conducting a sensor scan of a solar system after exiting from jump space in an unexplored subsector of space. The ship's computer woke the crew up from long-term hibernation without complication prior to exiting our jump. We wound up roughly eight parsecs away from our intended exit point near the observed anomaly. Some variation was expected because of the unstable nature of the wormhole we exploited to extend the range of our jump system.

First Officer Drummer reported no adverse effects from the hibernation process on the crew. Engineer Shash confirmed that all systems were running within acceptable performance levels. Security Officer Brown reported that all vehicles and weapons were in ready condition.

While our ultimate goal is to explore and understand the anomaly discovered by long-range Baon Space Telescope, are secondary goal is to map this unknown subsector along the way. Drummer and Shash are running the sensor sweep now. The good news is there are several Jovian worlds for fuel skimming and at least one suitable world for establishing a base of operations.

After we finish conducting our initial system scan we while plot a course for the habitable world and begin assessing possible base targets.

First Officer Drummer would like me once again to note her objection to BlueCorp's policy of naming newly mapped star systems via BlueCorp's computer algorithms. Drummer feels it would be better to first confirm that there are no native populations present who have already named the local planetary bodies under their own tongue. Regardless, computer has designated this system as _"Canurus"_.

### Incremental update #1

The initial system survey is complete and has identified 13 significant orbital bodies. 2 of those are asteroid belts, 3 are gas giants, several small or planetoid size objects, and one Earth-sized/like world we've designated _"Canurus IV"_. Sensors indicate a debris field orbiting the planet, an overall warmer climate than Earth, but otherwise contains suitable water and terrain to support life. First Officer Drummer plotted a course to _Canurus IV_ and we should be there in approximately 3.5 standard (Earth) days.

Ship's sensors have so far failed to detect the presence of other ships in system.

As a result of verbal confrontation that spilled over into shoving, Shash and Brown have been assigned to meal prep for the next 3 days.

## Captain’s Log, Mark 4781.14

After arriving within close sensor range to _Canurus IV_, we determined the debris field was rock-based and the contents were small ranging from 0.5 to 2 meters in size. I attempted to manuever us through the debris without taking damage but failed. One object impacted with the left-wing engine nacelle and Engineer Shash lodged their disappointment with my piloting over the ship's comm system. The remaining engines performed admirably and we were able to establish a low orbit while assessing possible landing targets.

After identifying our initial landing zone, Engineer Shash ran diagnostics and simulations to confirm touchdown was probable given our engine situation. I initiated landing protocols and brought us down at landing site _Alpha_, located in the southern polar ice cap, approximately 3km from a potential source of oil we wanted to document for future BlueCorp activities.

First Officer Drummer and Security Officer Brown formed the survey site team. Brown took the ATV and Drummer operated the working detachable Air/Raft right-wing engine nacelle. Once at the site Drummer reported that it would require more time than previously estimated to complete the site survey. Brown established temporary shelter while Drummer proceeded with the survey.

## Captain’s Log, Mark 4781.15

First Officer Drummer and Security Officer Brown have returned from the site survey. The potential source of oil has been confirmed and documented. Return travel was hampered by a blizzard but neither crew or vehicles were damaged in transit.

We are preparing to relocate to landing target _Beta_, where the grasslands are favorable for setting up a permanent shelter structure and the vegetation may offer a local food source.

## Captain’s Log, Mark 4781.17

_Beta_ site has proven to be a successful base target. BlueCorp provided us enough materials to establish two ground-based operational bases. These are small habitats that provide shelter, power, communications, and basic workspaces. I walked Drummer, Shash, and Brown through their responsibilities and we proceeded with construction with issue.

### Incremental update #2

Drummer found a local food source and rated it at an 85% chance of viability. I volunteered to try it and I can confirm 24 hours later that I have not developed food poisoning, rashes, or other ill side-effects.

The general feeling of the crew is one of apprehension. For a viable world target it is odd that we've yet to encounter creatures, humans, or any other signs of life beyond minor insects, many varieties of birds, and fauna.

### Incremental update #3

Engineer Shash confirms we have the necessary parts and tools to repair the left-wing engine nacelle with an estimated time of 3 standard days.

---

## Session Notes

- I'm taking a mini-break from our episodic "Season" play and running a survey & explore game based on a Lego starship model.
- I ended up using Classic Traveller (1977) for creating characters, Retro Sci-Fi Rules for overal game rules and ship design, HOSTILE: Solo for world building and survey procedures, and Mythic GME to fill-in any gaps. As usual I pull the right table for the job regardless of the core rule book, this sometimes means using Star Trek Adventures: Captain's Log or Ironsworn: Starforged for a random table to color the details. 
- As you can see I settled on the "Captain's Log" format for documenting game play. It is fast, easy, and represents about how much effort I want to put into this survey side-adventure.
- I remember the Retro Sci-Fi Rules annoying me at one point with what I perceived as rule gaps but at the moment I'm not finding any serious issues. As an example I was able to model the Lego starship with the ship-building rules without any trouble at all. Maybe this is because I was happy to just wing a few things, but everything fits into 150 tons as I set out to do. I might have played fast-and-loose with one area but I think I hit the spirit of the Lego model as well as rules-as-written. On the Lego model there are two wing-mounted engines that separated from the model and can be piloted similar to an Air/Raft. I decided not to double-dip on tonnage and just assume these are part of the tonnage of the hull and manuever drives. When they are detached I'll treat them as single-seat Air/Rafts. All seems to be on the up and up but I'm sure someone else would handle it differently.
- I gave the 4 member Crew a primary goal, a reason for being in the subsector to begin with. A space telescope observed what they believe are man-made light patterns emitting from from one area within the subsector. Rather then have them jump straight to the spot in the sub-sector I made up the "wormhole" problem and rolled a dice to determine which compass direction they started from on the traditional 8x10 Traveller subsector hex-grid ("South".) I then also rolled a random hex grid location for the perceived source of the light anomaly. So the crew have a second mission to map out the subsector on their way to the anomaly (and ideally, to completely map the subsector after exploring the anomaly) before returning home with the science. Really this was just a way to create some opportunities for things to go wrong and see what would happen.
- The dice were very much in the character's favor at creation time - I generated one of the most competent scout teams I could have hoped for. (I generated their characters and then assessed their stats and skills to determine which crew function they would best serve.) It should be said that one crew member died in character creation (RIP.) The only thing I used outside of Classic Traveller for character generation was the "crew relationships" random table in HOSTILE: Solo. That table serves to create connections between characters - some favorable, some not which helps create opportunities for roleplaying.
- It did occur to me that after all is said and done, it would be neat to have another game set in this same system but some time in the future. A character or crew somehow obtain the "Captain's Log" records and survey data for the system and use it for some purpose. Maybe things have changed, maybe not but a whole bunch of world building would have already been done for my real-life future GM-self.
- Some of the built-in gameworld assumptions of HOSTILE: Solo's random tables don't quite work with a subsector that, as far as the PCs know, has never been explored before. I did have the First Officer run a sensor check for in-system ships (Navigation 8+) and after that succesful roll, I asked a Fate Question about whether they found any (there were none.) If the procedures don't make sense, I'm just throwing them out and replacing with suitable Fate Chart questions from the Mythic GME. Example: if my gameworld suggest the system is uninhabited but the majority of results on the "Space Encounters" table in HOSTILE Solo is going to throw ship encounters at me, that's a problem. I don't mind having my assumptions about the game-world upended but I prefer Mythic do that instead of a random table that was purpose built for a different setting. I of course brought this problem on myself by refusing to use Zozer's HOSTILE setting but I point out as thing to be aware of when mixing and matching sourcebooks.
- I will create the usual supplemental pages for resources, a subsector map, characters, etc but just didn't have the energy for that today.