+++
title = 'Survey & Explore Log 4781.25'
date = 2024-12-03T21:20:00-08:00
draft = false
tags = ['Traveller', 'HOSTILE: Solo', 'Retro Sci-Fi']
universe = ['Survey & Explore']
+++

## Captain’s Log, Mark 4781.25

After wrapping up our survey of the _Canurus_ system and completing repairs we jumped to the next grid point. Upon arrival we ran our deep system sensor scans but they returned a vast field of nothing. Lacking a gas giant for refueling, I ordered Engineer Shash to run diagnostics on our jump fuel components and confirm fuel supplies. 

### Incremental update #1

First Officer Drummer had begun calculations for our next jump but was having trouble with the assignment. Over a lunch break we discussed the difficulties of plotting jump routes when you don't have full confidence in what is on the other side. I have known Andrea a long time and she is hard to rattle so her anxiety over the depths of the unknown surprised me at first. I think we all have those moments though when you stare into the black and realize there is not a visible star to guide you. The emptiness can feel overwhelming. Eventually Drummer re-ran sensor scans and picked up enough readings to plot our next waypoint. It appears that something is waiting for us on the other side as Drummer believes she has picked up the signature of a binary Class M star system.

### Incremental update #2

Engineer Shash has confirmed that everything is good to go with the jump drive and fuel. With Drummer's calculations completed we will bid farewell to the deep black and we'll see what gird point designation `408` brings us. Hopefully something more exciting than its dull numeric designation suggests.

## Session Notes

1. Much like random encounters in Traveller, sometimes little of consequence happens in the game's phases. Jumping into an unknown hex in Traveller is likely to result in nothing of interest 50% of the time.
2. Both _SOLO_ and _HOSTILE: Solo_ have this idea of difficult interpersonal crew reactions. Hanging out in cramped spaceship for weeks on end seems likely to have that effect on someone. When the crew reaction throw fails, you pick or roll for a random crew member and then there's another table which explains what the conflict is. In this case it was something that Drummer was feeling Panic or Anxiety over. As we ended up in an empty hex, it was easy to imagine the anxieties from being potentially adrift in a cosmic void.
3. I decided to look ahead and see what the next hex would be and it wasn't empty. From there I rolled up a star using the generation tools in _Star Trek: Captain's Log_.
4. A brief session, but fitting as I only have a few free minutes here and there with the busy holiday season upon us.