+++
title = 'Cirrus 101: Totally Recalled'
date = 2025-04-16T08:45:00-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['Mythic GME', 'Traveller', 'SOLO']
series = ['Cirrus Kargar']
universes = ['']
+++

## Curro, 001-3072

"So are you recalling us?" Cirrus asks of the blonde haired representative of the Scout Service who stands before him.

With a raised eyebrow she looks back to her datapad and then to Cirrus. "Us? Our records say this detached scout vessel has a crew of one... a Mr. Cirrus Kargar, 6-term Senior Scout. That's you right?"

Cirrus nods and chuckles "Me and the old Tranquility here..." he says as he pats the angled hull of the Type-S Scout ship "...have formed a bond." Cirrus closes places his matrix scanner back into its case and seals it. "What's the assignment?" asks Cirrus as his eyes focus on the woman's eyes a captivating swirl of light-blue and turquoise.

"We need you to escort a Currolese diplomatic representative to Faronis and return her safely."

"They, uh, don't have of their own transports here on Curro?"

"It is a matter of some urgency, Mr. Kargar. The assignment requires the discretion and fortitude the Scout Service is respected for. Baroness Kunnor will be here at 0800 hours tomorrow."

Cirrus nods and wipes his dirty mechanics hands off with a cloth slung over his shoulder. "And when will I be seeing you again, miss?" It is small but Cirrus detects a smile from the woman before she leaves the docking bay.

---

Cirrus leaves the Scout Base and heads into the local Startown to replenish supplies best not purchased from the Scouts Service commissary: coffee. Curro happens to grow an excellent variety of coffee with hints of citrus and berries which is delicately light roasted.

While Cirrus is loading the coffee into his air-raft he's approached by a person with short-cropped hair, colorful clothes, and a slightly weathered androgynous face. He offers Cirrus a deal on locally made goods and though Cirrus detects an ulterior motive his curiosity kicks in. 

Cirrus visits the merchant's warehouse on the edge of Startown. The merchant comes clean, says he knows Cirrus is Faronis bound and asks for help in smuggling a crate there. The pair agree on a courier's fee of 9500Cr, half up-front and half paid by the buyer on delivery. Cirrus is happy for the extra credits but concerned about operational security if the Baroness' movements are being leaked.

## Curro, 002-3072

Morning comes and Cirrus brews up a batch of his new coffee. The external cameras reveal the arrival of a diplomatic air-sedan. Cirrus, now cleaned up from yesterday's maintenance and resupply activities, has tried to dress suitably for the occasion. There's no official uniform for the Scouts but Cirrus has polished his boots and is wearing gray dress slacks with a long-sleeve gray button-over, high collar shirt. The top-quarter of the shirt is white and on the upper left breast is a Scout Service polished titanium triangle logo pin. 

The passenger door of the air-sedan opens upwards and a dark haired woman steps out wearing a long silky, flowy forest-green dress. She proceeds to the Tranquility's access ramp, followed by an aide who brings up her luggage. 

Cirrus walks down the ramp to greet her. "Baroness, welcome aboard." A pair of large jewel-encrusted serpent earrings catches Cirrus' eye.

"Thank you, Captain Kargar."

"Cirrus will do fine, m'am."

"As you wish."

"Your Stateroom is this way." Cirrus says as he leads the Baroness through the entry port, through a cramped hallway that leads to the set of Tranquility's Staterooms. "Perhaps a bit more cramped than you are used to but there's a galley down the hall with a bit more room and a fresh batch of coffee."

The Baroness has no visible reaction to all of this as her feelings, whatever they are, are kept to herself. She remains calm, cool, and collected on the outside.

The Baroness joins Cirrus on the Bridge after storing her luggage.

"First time in space?" Cirrus asks of the Baroness. She nods but not quite as cooly as her previous interactions. Instead Cirrus picks up on a hint of youthful excitement.

## Faronis, 009-3072

Coming out of jump into Faronis, Cirrus looks at the ship's empty sensor readout. For a small but growing trade hub Cirrus would have expected some shipping traffic. Cirrus considers that perhaps that's why the Baroness is here.

The week of jump went thankfully without incident. In fact Cirrus would like to think that he and the Baroness got along fairly well to the point where the Baroness asked Cirrus to just call her "Ala." As best as Cirrus can tell, the Baroness was resistant to traveling with a security detail but was talked into having someone at least "shepherd" her on a space-bound journey.

Normally Cirrus would stay onboard the Tranquility while in port but the Baroness has accommodations at the Emirhan Hotel. This serves Cirrus just fine as he is looking forward to sampling as many coffee options as possible on Faronis.

## Session Notes

### Prep

- Did I say Star Wars was next? Whoops. Instead we are playtesting the upcoming Zozer Games SOLO 2nd Edition which is taking advantage of the new Mongoose Traveller content license. I've got a bit of Mongoose Traveller 2nd Edition material but being well versed in Classic Traveller I've never played the newer edition out of a lack of necessity.
- SOLO's first edition was a great product that taught me the value of zooming in and zooming out on task resolution. When playing solitaire there's value (in my time and enjoyment) in not rolling for every detail, interaction, etc. Sometimes it is enough to know the broad-strokes of a mission or scene and make a combined roll to resolve the situation.
- I'll use SOLO's Traveller Campaign to guide the weekly game loop.
- SOLO's campaigns and scene-based resolution are great but I'm still partial to using Mythic for dynamic management of characters & threads and I see nothing in SOLO 2nd Edition that suggests new tools for handling those details.
- For outside resources I'll use Mythic to manage details about the game world, scenes, random events. For random tables there are a quite lot within SOLO, Mongoose Traveller 2nd Edition's Core rulebook, and I'll also use The Perilous Void or Mythic's meaning tables as I see fit.

### In-Game 

The initial scene was the result of a Mythic Random Event "NPC Action." We don't have any NPCs on our Mythic Adventure Lists yet so I use the Mythic One Page Character Crafter to create one. The Identity descriptor comes up as a "Skilled Representative." For an Event Context I use the Story Clue oracle from Starforged and get "Connects to your own expertise or interests." This is how we get to leveraging Traveller's built-in story complication for the Scout Ship benefit - you can be recalled into service at anytime. I used the Pronoun table in Perilous Void to work out that detail and also the Job table to determine what it is the Scouts service is asking us to do. It is an escort mission.

SOLO provides a number of "mini games" that are purpose suited towards different campaign styles. Most involve a "weekly encounter" of some sort and the Travellers Campaign is no different. 

For the first week I roll and get: 

> "Approached to smuggle illegal goods off-planet. If you accept, roll Streetwise 8+ to succeed. There may be other complications. If you refuse you may make an enemy of the smuggler."

This implies that a single Streetwise throw will resolve this side-quest and I'm okay with that. Cirrus has Streetwise-0 and throws a 6 & 2 for a total of 8, passing the check. I'm not sure what the contraband is and I don't see a table of illegal goods in SOLO. I could either use THe Perilous Void or the Mongoose core book and I opt for the core book. There's a d66 table of cargo goods and the 61-66 entries are all illegal. I throw a d6, get a 5, and that gives me "Illegal Weapons." Word probably travels around on a planet that a diplomant is heading off-world with a Scout, seems somewhat irregular, so I imagine that's why someone would approach Cirrus. I used the bargaining rules and freight fee tables from Mongoose Traveller to work out what the payment should be.

Whether or not the Baroness had been in space before was left to a 50/50 Mythic Fate Question. Her temperament towards being in Space for the first I left to a Reaction throw. How Cirrus and the Baroness got along for the week in jump used the mechanics in SOLO for in-personal relations on long voyages.

Rolling for a week of travel event with SOLO I got "Typical trip, with highs and lows" and Cirrus & the Baroness passed what SOLO calls a "Bad Reaction" throw. I also rolled for what the "relationship" (another SOLO table) between Cirrus & the Baroness is - more as a guide for what it will develop into. There was no starship encounter on arrival in the Faronis system and "Nothing out of the ordinary occurs" in the Starport -or- "A whole lotta nothing" but that means we can jump straight to the mission stuff next time.